# NAME

nitls - search and lists the packages, groups and paths of Nit sources files.

# SYNOPSIS

nitls [*options*] [*FILE*]...

# DESCRIPTION

`nitls` is used to search and list Nit files in directories and extract the module-group-package relation.

It is basically a `ls`, a `which` or a simple `find` specialized on `.nit` source files.

By default `nitls` works with the current directory (`.`).

Each file can then be:

* A Nit module (file).
  In this case, only this single module is considered
* A Nit group (directory).
  In this case, all the modules of the groups (and recursively the sub-groups) are considered
* A normal directory.
  In this case, all its entries are analysed.
  Files that are Nit modules and directories that are Nit groups are considered.
  Other files and directories are ignored.

# EXAMPLES

Show the tree of modules from the current directory.

    $ nitls
    test_prog: Test program for model tools. (.)
    |--game: Gaming group (./game)
    |  `--game: A game abstraction for RPG. (./game/game.nit)
    |--platform: Fictive Crappy Platform. (./platform)
    |  `--platform: Declares base types allowed on the platform. (./platform/platform.nit)
    |--rpg: Role Playing Game group (./rpg)
    |  |--careers: Careers of the game. (./rpg/careers.nit)
    |  |--character: Characters are playable entity in the world. (./rpg/character.nit)
    |  |--combat: COmbat interactions between characters. (./rpg/combat.nit)
    |  |--races: Races of the game. (./rpg/races.nit)
    |  `--rpg: A worlg RPG abstraction. (./rpg/rpg.nit)
    `--test_prog: A test program with a fake model to check model tools. (./test_prog.nit)


Show the list of packages imported by the modules of the current directory.

    $ nitls -d -P *.nit
    base64: Offers the base 64 encoding and decoding algorithms (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/base64.nit)
    core: # Nit common library of core classes and methods (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/core)
    curl: Data transfer with URL syntax (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/curl)
    json (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/json)
    libevent: Low-level wrapper around the libevent library to manage events on file descriptors (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/libevent.nit)
    md5: Native MD5 digest implementation as `Text::md5` (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/md5.nit)
    more_collections: Highly specific, but useful, collections-related classes. (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/more_collections.nit)
    nitcc_runtime: Runtime library required by parsers and lexers generated by nitcc (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/nitcc_runtime.nit)
    nitcorn: Lightweight framework for Web applications development (.)
    parser_base: Simple base for hand-made parsers of all kinds (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/parser_base.nit)
    performance_analysis: Services to gather information on the performance of events by categories (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/performance_analysis.nit)
    realtime: Services to keep time of the wall clock time (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/realtime.nit)
    serialization: # Abstract serialization services (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/serialization)
    template: Basic template system (/home/privat/prog/nit/lib/template)

Show the directory of the package `inkscape_tools`.

    $ nitls -pP inkscape_tools
    /home/privat/prog/nit/contrib/inkscape_tools

# OPTIONS

Each combination of option

## PRESENTATION MODE

Three presentation modes are available.

### `-P`, `--package`
List packages in a flat list (default).

Only package are displayed (and not the individual files).

### `-t`, `--tree`
List source files in their groups and packages.

Each `.nit` file is presented in a tree of packages and groups.

### `-s`, `--source`
List source files in a flat list.

Each `.nit` file is presented individually.

The three modes are exclusives.

The default mode is `--package` unless one on the argument is a group, then it is `--group`.

## COLLECT

### `-r`, `--recursive`
Process directories recursively.

All `.nit` files found in the specified directory and subdirectories are considered.

### `-d`, `--depends`
List dependencies of given modules.

All imported modules are also considered.

In --tree and --source modes, the modules directly imported are also displayed.

### `-k`, `--keep`
Ignore errors and files that are not a Nit source file.

When a file that is not a valid Nit module is encountered, it is ignored and the rest of the files are
processed.

Without this option, an error message is displayed and nitls terminates on such a case.

## PRESENTATION OPTIONS

### `-p`, `--path-only`
List only path (instead of name + path).

Paths are displayed uncolored.

### `-M`
List dependencies suitable for a rule in a Makefile.

Alias for `-d`, `-p` and `-s`.

# SEE ALSO

The Nit language documentation and the source code of its tools and libraries may be downloaded from <http://nitlanguage.org>
